this is earth sketchpad I'm Ricky Martin
and behold the mouse I'll show you how
to draw one in three minutes actually
less than three minutes
[Music]
it's when I'm doing a mouse I start with
a long snout like that
the Dallas chin and I draw in a little
mouth and its nose with these two little
lines like that and I'll do its eyes now
mice don't have great eyesight but
they're nocturnal so it's dark anyway
and they kind of hear the way around and
use their sense of smell so got these
lovely big ears
there you go and they've got these
whiskers and these help them to check
for fluctuations in temperature and to
feel around on the floor there's a
little front paws like this
and then I kind of follow a little line
that goes down like that and back up for
the bum little hind paws now mice are
pretty much protected on by everything
like cats dogs snakes eagles humans try
and catch them as well we don't eat them
though and they get between 6 and 11
centimeters long and their tail is
always about the same size as their body
so 11 centimeter Mouse 11 centimeter
tail they're pretty much covered in fur
set the towels that are nearly naked I
need a couple of bits on there check it
out that's how you draw a mouse in less
than three minutes
but this mouse is pretty tough and it's
me just make it mean give it a little
lower eyebrow like that
it's so tough I think it won't have
patella that says it is tough
[Music]
tough in fact it's so tough is riding a
cat and the cat you know it's not have
any good time in fact it's got tears in
its eyes
it's crying for the mouse it's just so
intimidating to draw a sad cat when one
of those go down a little bit more well
what's it called collar will be a bell
around there's only into that just tell
what we found back on yourself a little
bit it's that running just being told to
run by the mouse if it doesn't listen to
the mouse I'm gonna get it why is this
mouse tough it's got a home gym so it
likes to keep up his cardio work over
here little treadmill now most mice have
a will they kept asbestos one just has a
proper treadmill however in our track a
little bit and over here
well benchpress this is like the little
thing you lay on yet doing weights now
the way it's gonna be on the floor is
recently the mouse is doing a lot of
dead lifts so way over here
[Music]
now feel a bit bit cheese there my sub
quite voracious appetites have to eat
about 15 20 times a day keep up that
metabolism this one's on the cheese
because it needs the protein of course
this mouse lives in a house that's
looking out rest the house up over here
maybe there's somebody looking in
looking for the cat
I've seen these days shocked this will
put a little rug in there because you
can't see in turn the room but this
really ties it up together these of
course little surprise lines that's
right in the cat cats upset super tough
mouse right okay don't mess with the
mouse
[Music]
loving the creature chaos there's plenty
more sketchpad pics on the BBC earth
kids channel
[Music]